uh it's a rainy thursday evening
and you curl up in your armchair with a
cup of hot chocolate
and a new bright side video suddenly you
notice a scary
shadow above you there's a monster on
the wall with 100 legs and antennae on
its head
you start dialing 9-1-1 and your mom at
the same time
while you're on the phone your guest
moves at lightning speed
two seconds and you can no longer see it
you
grab a mop and hide in your closet with
your hands shaking
you open the browser and type scary
beast inside my house
you scroll before you finally find the
right one
house centipede turns out it only has 15
pairs of legs
two well-developed eyes and two long
sensitive antennae to pick up smells and
vibrations
it carries venom in the legs located by
the head and near the mouth
and it can hold more than one prey in
its legs using them like a lasso
all this makes your guest an excellent
hunter
somehow all the web pages you're looking
at are telling you
to leave the beast alone and be happy
it's in your house
a lot of people are trying to get rid of
them but how centipedes are a natural
and free pest control in your home
they'll help you get rid of bugs
flies ants moths spiders termites and
cockroaches you as a human are simply
not
on their menu they're active night
hunters and
they don't leave webs or traps anywhere
they don't build nests in house either
and don't snack on your furniture
clothing food or
pets they move without making a sound
and without leaving any dirty traces
behind
how centipedes don't carry any diseases
and in 99 percent of cases
get out at night when you can't see them
they're always moving around looking for
prey
because they move quickly you might not
notice them at all
they would only try biting you if you
attack them first
even then they can't bite through skin
it feels like a light bee sting
nothing too crazy this sounds promising
and you're
almost ready to get out of your hiding
spot
you scream like a girl it's there again
quickly
you don't need to feel comfortable
sharing your home with this multi-legged
creature
you grab a jar and a paper it's running
across the room
it's under the bookshelf wait for it to
get out on the wall
you turn off the lights to make it feel
more relaxed
it's still now and so it's done you take
it outside
and hope it will still do the pest
control job out there
you decide to secure the house from any
other unwanted guests
so how centipedes love moisture and like
to hang out in bathrooms and basements
most of all
you get downstairs and fill all the gaps
in the floor and the walls
you check all the pipes in the bathroom
and kitchen for leaks
ah perfect now it's time to go outside
and remove dry leaves and twigs
centipedes
love to hide in there it's been a busy
night
you decide to watch some tv ouch what a
monster
it's a goliath bird eater the largest
spider in the world
and just like the house centipede it
looks way scarier than it
actually is the goliath diet includes
insects
frogs and rodents it lives in northern
south america
despite its huge size it can't hurt a
human with its venom
no more than a bee sting the next guest
on the show is the whale shark
obviously not a bug it's the largest
shark and fish in the world
slightly bigger than a double-decker bus
and as heavy as five elephants
they have 300 tiny teeth in their mouth
and they use those on plankton
and the occasional fish whale sharks are
slow swimmers and the kindest of all
sharks
they even play with divers in fact
humans are more dangerous to them
than they are to humans despite its huge
size
giant african millipede is a shy guy and
would rather hide under the rocks all
day
the only thing it can attack is dry
leaves on the ground
this way it plays its role for the
environment
australian thorny dragons are lizards
with scary looking spikes on their
bodies
they move around the scrubs and deserts
in search of ants
that's their favorite and only meal and
they can eat thousands of small ants a
day
they catch them with their sticky
tongues thorny dragons use their spikes
to protect themselves against predators
and won't ever attack a human their
superpower
is changing color depending on
temperature
wrinkle-faced bats live in central and
south america
they only eat fruit and their face shape
and skin
helps them with it they have terrible
table manners and shove their face
completely in their lunch
all the wrinkles help the fruit juices
funnel directly into the mouth
oh what a great idea i should try that
eye eyes are lemurs that live only in
madagascar
an old local superstition says meeting
one of those is really bad luck
in fact they're harmless creatures that
feed on insects and larvae
they quickly tap on tree trunks to find
food and take it out with their long
middle fingers
eye eyes prefer to stay on trees and
barely get down on the ground
so you're unlikely to ever bump into one
anyway
if you ever visit nepal or india and run
into a crocodile with a long and narrow
nose
don't panic it's a gerial crocodiles are
their closest relatives
but gerials are not one of them they are
their own unique species
their weird noses are perfectly adapted
to catch fish
it's their favorite food gerials are
loving and caring parents
and super shy creatures they hide from
humans
and never attack them milk snakes look
almost
exactly like coral snakes but unlike
that highly venomous creature
they are completely harmless nature gave
them those brightly colored stripes to
trick prospective predators into
thinking they are coral snakes
thanks to that mimicry they survive in
different places
from fields and rocks to agricultural
areas and barns
some people even keep milk snakes as
pets
yeah but you better keep the different
color patterns straight
matamata spiky turtles are super lazy
they don't even swim but walk in slow
moving streams and swamps
they only get out of the water to lay
eggs matamatas don't hunt
but wait for their food to come by when
they see a fish
they stretch their neck and swallow it
like a vacuum cleaner
they have to do it because their jaws
can't even chew hey
what's the motto with you virginia tiger
moth is as scared of you
as you are of it and tries to avoid
contact at all costs
their favorite food is leaves birch
willow maple
walnut cabbage and so on they chew on
the fleshy parts and leave the leafy
skeleton behind
if you really annoy them they'll try to
protect themselves
but the most serious mark they can leave
behind is slight skin irritation
or some nunchuck marks if they're forced
to use their martial arts
just kidding vultures have sharp beaks
and talons
and a reputation as a bad guy in fact
they won't hurt a single living being
their culinary preference
is animal carcasses yum this way they
make the world a cleaner and healthier
place
kind of like animal control unlike most
birds that have 360 degree vision
vultures only focus on what's going on
beneath them with their 60 degree vision
giant isopods are close relatives of
shrimps and crabs
living deep under the sea they have
alien-like bodies with dozens of sharp
claws on the belly
and four sets of jaws to hunt but they
don't always have food around them
that's why they slow down their
metabolism to save energy
and constantly live in semi-hibernation
when they're in danger giant isopods
curl up into a little ball
and hide so that no one can find them
the star-nosed mole is the size of a
hamster
and the fastest eater in the world it
presses the creepy looking star on its
nose to the soil
to find out what's in 10 to 12 different
places in a second
the star has 100 000 nerve fibers in it
that send information to the mole's
brain not a bad compensation for almost
no eyesight and good enough to hunt
insects while being perfectly
harmless to humans tailless whip
scorpions
unlike their relatives don't carry venom
or toxins
and can't bite sting or hurt humans in
any other possible way
they can't even chew so they sit and
wait for an insect to pass by
and detect it with their legs they make
great pets
and owners even put them on their faces
without fear
[Music]
that's okay you go first i'll watch from
over here